[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief,"
and if you're into
astrology, you're
going to love this program.
Heather Arielle with
us, founder and CEO
of Arielle's Astrology, where
she offers astrology readings,
counseling, and classes.
And her readings focus on
personal and practical and
powerful ways that astrology
can improve your life.
Great to see you again.
How are you?
>>HEATHER ARIELLE: Thanks
for having me back.
It's wonderful to be here.
>>NOORY: Have you been busy?
>>ARIELLE: I have.
I created this whole new
Oracle deck and book.
I've been touring
all over the country,
doing events with
my book and deck.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
Good for you.
People love astrology.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
>>NOORY: I remember,
Heather, when I was a kid,
and I'd read the newspaper,
because in my day,
we didn't have computers.
Everybody would turn to
the horoscopes first--
everybody.
I mean, that was the
thing in a newspaper,
and they'd publish it every
day, these different things.
Astrology is based on
astrological signs.
Right?
>>ARIELLE: Right, right.
>>NOORY: The planets,
star systems.
>>ARIELLE: The Houses, yes.
>>NOORY: How does that
determine, though, who we are
or what we are?
>>ARIELLE: Well, I mean,
it is a belief system,
but it all starts with
your exact birth time.
And so the belief
in astrology is
that, if we have your
exact birth time,
we can create what's
called a natal chart,
and that is a snapshot
of the cosmos the moment
you were born.
So where all the planets
are the moment you're born,
the Houses they're in,
what all that looks
like, and it really
is the belief
that then that's going to
reveal qualities about you,
talents that you're
going to want to develop,
challenges that you may face.
So it is going to give you
a lot of information on how
to reach your full potential.
>>NOORY: When little
Heather Arielle was a kid,
did she go, mommy, I'm
going to be an astrologer?
How did that happen?
>>ARIELLE: No, no, I--
it did happen a little early.
I was 14, but a good friend
of mine just gave me a read
and said, oh, you
should go do this.
It's really fun.
I do it.
I had no idea how
transformative it would be,
but I went to Mary Keswani,
so in Louisville, Kentucky,
where I'm from.
If you go to a great
astrologer, it's
not just, oh, tell me
what's going to happen next.
It is transformative.
It is healing.
It really does elevate
your consciousness.
So after I had such a
great reading with her,
I started studying with her.
She became my mentor, and she
really taught me most of what
I know with astrology.
>>NOORY: Now, you
have Oracle cards.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, I do.
>>NOORY: Let me
see this pack here.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, yes, sure.
>>NOORY: There's,
what, 52 cards in here?
>>ARIELLE: That's
right, 52 cards.
>>NOORY: And these
are Oracle cards here,
and we're going to be showing
you on screen these cards
and what they mean,
because each card has
a different meaning to it.
>>ARIELLE: That is right,
and that's something
unique to Oracle cards.
So Oracle cards, they all
use different languages.
So you can get Oracle
cards on animals, chakras.
Mine uses the language
of Western astrology,
and each card is different
with different messages.
And each image is
also different.
>>NOORY: How does it differ, the
Oracle cards, from tarot cards,
where you have
70-some in the deck?
>>ARIELLE: That's right,
78 cards in tarot.
Well, in tarot, there's
always the same 78 cards.
You have the Minor
Arcana, the Major Arcana.
You're always going
to have an Empress,
you're always going to
have a Wheel of Fortune,
but the art is going to
be-- the illustrations
will be different.
So with the Oracle, not only
are the illustrations different,
but the language is different.
So the cards you're
going to find,
since I'm using
astrology, you're going
to find Sagittarius in my deck.
You're going to find astrology
themed ideas in my deck,
whereas in an animal one,
you'd find a lion card.
So each Oracle deck
is unique in that way.
>>NOORY: Now, when the
person picks the card,
or you pick the card for
them, does that determine
their outcome of their life?
Or how many do you have to
pick for an individual one.
Oh, here are your cards.
>>ARIELLE: You can get
so much-- oh, sure.
You can get so much out of a
reading from just one card,
so if you're a beginner,
I say start simply.
Pick one card, and you
can say a simple request,
like inspire and prepare me
for today, or for the week,
or for the month.
You take that card.
You take it, and you
read the message.
You take in the image, and then
you look it up in my guidebook,
where I have two to four
pages written on each card,
and there are
additional messages.
They're also detailed messages.
>>NOORY: I see.
>>ARIELLE: And then I
work with my clients
to develop their
intuition, so then they
know which message is for them.
And sometimes, it's
all of the above.
Sometimes, that card--
>>NOORY: I believe that.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah, really
take in that card's energy.
>>NOORY: In the tarot cards, you
have some scary cards in there.
You've got the Devil.
You've got Death.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you have the
same kind of things in yours?
>>ARIELLE: Well--
>>NOORY: Yours seem
more enlightening.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, yes,
well, I think--
I'm very playful.
I'm a very playful,
creative person,
so I always have a lot of joy
and bliss in anything I do.
There are some cards, like
Uranus, Pluto, Charon.
And, well, Uranus is
the Great Awakener,
and so that scares
people because it's
expect the unexpected.
Any loss or elimination
will lead to liberation,
and people are like, what.
And so recently, I had a woman--
the last card in her
reading was Uranus,
and it was very unsettling.
And so I said,
two things you can
do when you get a card that
you consider to be scary.
One, clarify it, because it
may not be, and in her case,
Jupiter was the clarification,
which is abundance.
And it ended up, there
was an offer to relocate,
so it was positive
in her situation.
But even when you do
get a card that is maybe
not the cards you wanted--
well, I believe we
choose our chart.
And so if we choose
our chart, and if we're
connecting to our guides
to receive messages,
we're getting the messages
that are going to help
us reach our full potential.
So any message that we
get is a good message
because it's going to help us
transform, and that's the goal.
>>NOORY: And are they things
that will be or could be?
When you pull a card--
>>ARIELLE: Yes, yes, it all
depends on how you ask it.
I like to really--
I encourage my clients not to
always ask yes or no questions.
Instead say, well, what are
some energies, if I incorporate,
will bring me more joy?
Then if you pick
that card, you're
going to then want to
incorporate those energies,
and then you're going to
be a more fulfilled person.
>>NOORY: So we've got
some on the screen
that we're going to look
at called Sun signs.
What are Sun signs?
>>ARIELLE: So the Sun sign--
if your sun is in
Gemini, my sun is
in Gemini, that means
when we were born,
the sun was in the
zodiac sign of Gemini.
There are 12 zodiac signs.
Every zodiac sign
has about 30 degrees,
so for 30 days about, the
sun is in a certain sign,
and it does give a
lot of information.
It illuminates.
It illuminates us.
The sun is vital.
It's a vital part of us.
Even though there's
been too much
emphasis on sun science
with the horoscopes
that you mentioned
earlier, but it still
is very important for
us to really feel alive.
>>NOORY: With what we've
got on the screen right now,
what are these, Heather?
>>ARIELLE: So the these are--
the whole Western zodiac
starts with Aries.
>>NOORY: And these
are four cards?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, these
are the first four signs,
and I like to talk in terms
of, are we in or out of balance
with our energy?
Because there is nuance
and duality in astrology.
So for Aries, if
you have Aries Sun,
then that's pioneering air--
that's pioneering energy.
If you want to be in balance
with that energy, be a warrior.
Go ahead and be first.
Pursue your pioneering ideas.
Aries is also very fast.
Things happen quickly.
Now, when an Aries
gets out of balance,
that's when they can
become impatient.
They want things to
happen right now,
and so I always say
patience is a virtue.
Follow through with
your pioneering plan.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>ARIELLE: Now, Taurus
is the second sign.
Taurus is very earthy.
It's grounded.
It has tenacity--
>>NOORY: Kind of
bull-headed, right?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: My daughter's a Taurus,
and she is a little toughie.
>>ARIELLE: Well, if you're
in bounds with Taurus,
you have wonderful perseverance.
You can get to the
finish line, and they're
very great manipulators
of the material world.
So that's very, very powerful.
Now, if a Taurus gets out of
balance, then that tenacity--
they're going to a finish line
that may not be worth crossing.
And they don't quite--
they get stubborn,
and they don't do a
course correction.
So it's the same quality
that can be wonderful,
but that can also be
a little challenging.
So that's why you want to
be aware of everything.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Next one?
>>ARIELLE: Now, Gemini--
>>NOORY: Here he is.
Hey, the twins.
>>ARIELLE: We're both Geminis.
Gemini, the twins, it's
a playful, curious sign.
It's all about
communication, so ideas
are very important to Geminis.
And it's also the
most adaptable sign.
They can bend like willows.
They can be chameleons, and
they can just adapt instantly.
So when a Gemini gets out
of balance, all of a sudden,
they overthink things.
So sometimes, the Gemini has to
be reminded to make a decision
or stick the landing.
So in gymnastics, it's
stick the landing.
Just make a decision, and
don't overthink everything.
>>NOORY: Interesting,
and our last car?
>>ARIELLE: Cancer.
It's such nurturing energy.
It's very sensitive
and nurturing.
It's very loving.
So I like the
watercolor, and I should
say Tom Cummins
is the artist who
did all of these watercolors.
>>NOORY: He's done a
great job with these.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, and I think
it's a beautiful watercolor
for Cancer.
It says everything
in the image--
a mother holding a child.
It's nurturing.
When Cancers are
in balance, they
nurture themselves
as well as others.
When Cancers get
out of balance, they
get moody because
all of their energy
is on taking care
of other people.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
So since you've been
doing this-- which
has been how many years now?
>>ARIELLE: Well, it's
been a long time.
It's been decades.
>>NOORY: Have you gotten
better and better at it?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, my gosh,
every single reading I do,
I get better because there's
such nuance and duality
in astrology that--
and it's so complicated.
And a part of it is
intuitive, especially
when I'm incorporating
my Oracle cards.
So it's just, you
need to practice.
>>NOORY: What is a natal chart?
>>ARIELLE: So a natal chart--
that is the snapshot.
So if I have your birthday,
month, year, location--
even with that, I can
create a solar chart.
But if I have your
exact time, then I
can create a
complete natal chart,
and that's going to--
that is the foundation.
That energy is with
you every single day
for your entire life.
>>NOORY: Now this natal chart
we're looking at right now--
>>ARIELLE: OK, this is-- yeah.
This is--
>>NOORY: This is
somebody we know.
>>ARIELLE: This is
>>NOORY: How'd you
get my information?
How do these people
know this stuff?
>>ARIELLE: So this
is your natal chart,
and a couple of ways that--
I like to look at a big picture.
So when I look at this
chart, sometimes I
would just start by
saying, your zodiac signs
that we're going to talk about--
Taurus, Gemini, Aquarius, Leo.
Those are your main
signs, and then I
would look at elements
and modalities.
So when I look at
your chart, you
have a lot of earth, Taurus,
with you have Mercury, Venus,
Mid Heaven, and Taurus.
So what we talked
about with Taurus,
you've got all the tenacity,
and your daughter, you said,
is a Taurus.
>>NOORY: She's one, yeah.
>>ARIELLE: You see that
often, where children,
their charts are
going to echo strongly
the charts of their parents.
So you've got all
that perseverance.
Taurus rules the voice.
You have an amazing voice,
singing and not singing.
>>NOORY: Thank you very much.
>>ARIELLE: And then
the earth, grounded,
being able to
manifest in real ways.
Now, when we add in your
Gemini sun and Aquarian moon,
those are air signs,
and that's going
to add something a
little bit different.
So you have great ideas.
You have great communication
with the Gemini.
Aquarius is unique energy.
It's the energy to reform, so
that means your ideas are also
alternative and unique.
When you combine the air with
the earth, all of a sudden,
you're able to manifest, in
tangible, practical ways,
your alternative unique ideas.
>>NOORY: If you didn't know
me, and you looked merely
at the chart before you
met me, would you still
have a pretty good
idea of who I was?
>>ARIELLE: I would have a very
good idea of your potential.
I would have a very good idea
of the opportunities that would
be open to you, the talents.
Now, you never know,
until you meet somebody,
if they're-- because sometimes
people overcompensate,
and they overidentify
with certain energy.
That's why it's great to
get your reading done,
because then you can say, oh.
I have clients say,
oh, I didn't even
know I had that because
they were so focused.
So becoming aware
of your energy is
really significant to
reaching your full potential.
That's why everything
I do, every tool
I use with my clients, is
to help them be present
with their energy.
>>NOORY: Now, what is a collage?
>>ARIELLE: Well,
it's something I use.
I'm an astrological
counselor, so I
see clients on a regular basis.
It's one of the
tools I use to help
them reach their-- to help them
really reach transformation.
I use my Oracle deck,
and I assemble them
into a beautiful art collage
with meaningful messages.
Often, it's from an intuitive
reading I've had with them.
It's at the end of, first,
I do their astrology,
then I do that, and I send
them away with a collage.
And I found it very helpful,
because even though astrology--
>>NOORY: And you put
the collage together?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, I put
the collage together
based on the intuitive
messages that their guides
are giving them through me.
So then they can go home,
and in between sessions,
they can look at that
collage, and it will trigger
everything we spoke about.
It will have the
essence, because I really
capture the essence of
each card's meaning.
>>NOORY: Interesting
take on that.
How many cards, of
the 52 in the deck,
do you use for any
particular person?
>>ARIELLE: I use all 52.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, and
there are actually
104 messages because I
use messages on each side.
I use the reverse card design,
which is a little unusual.
>>NOORY: Now, what
are the 12 Houses?
>>ARIELLE: The Houses
are very important.
When you look at a chart,
you see these little boxes.
Well, each box is an
area of experience.
So we have a box--
we have a House for health,
a House for marriage,
a House for career,
a House for friends,
a House for earned income.
>>NOORY: Each House
different for something.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah,
and you really want
to know what's going
on in that House,
so you can activate
its full energy.
>>NOORY: What determines
what the Houses are?
>>ARIELLE: Now, that is--
>>NOORY: What are
we looking at here?
>>ARIELLE: Well, that is
actually the first step
in making a visual collage.
This is something
that I came up with.
We saw your natal chart.
That is what a chart looks
like, and it's very confusing
to a lot of my clients,
so I created my deck
to create a visual
representation
of that natal chart.
So the first step is
you take out my 12
cards that are the House cards.
>>NOORY: And you do that?
>>ARIELLE: Mm-hmm, and then
you put them in a circle.
So then all of a
sudden, you're not
looking at a blank
box saying, what
did Heather Arielle
tell me that meant?
You're saying, oh, second House.
It says earned income
right on the House,
and also the image reveals.
So it allows for immediate
comprehension of your chart,
and it's also beautiful.
So that is the first step I
would do with people to create
that visual representation.
>>NOORY: And does that give
them a pretty good understanding
of what direction they
should take with their life?
What's the basis
of the astrology?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, the
basis of the astrology
is that when you're
present with your energy,
you're able to use those
skills, and you're also
able to understand.
If there's going to
be something that
may be a little
challenging, it's always
good to have the awareness.
So you go, and it's just like if
you know a hurricane is coming,
it's better to know it's coming
and prepare than to say, oh,
my gosh, there's a hurricane.
So you always want to know.
You want to be as prepared
as possible and present.
>>NOORY: Now, the planetary
alignments sometimes that
occur, and the
retrogrades that pop up--
how important is all that?
>>ARIELLE: Retrogrades
are really important.
We have several Mercury
retrogrades a year.
I also--
>>NOORY: We're in one now.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, yes, we are.
We talk about Venus and Mars.
Those are the three personal
planets that go retrograde.
When we're in retrogrades,
I like to use the RE rule.
I say, if you can RE
it, you can do it.
So think about words
that begin with RE.
It's a time to rejuvenate,
return to something you know,
research, reignite.
You want to use--
it's a reflective time.
If you can make time
to do that, you're
really going to get more
out of the retrograde.
It's personal.
Go in.
Do extra meditation
during retrogrades.
>>NOORY: We'll come back
to more retrograde stories.
Now, this, of course, is your
personal planets collage.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: Explain that.
>>ARIELLE: This is
really important.
I mean, we have outer
planets, but I always
tell people, really look
at your personal planets.
Really get to know them, because
they reveal so much about you.
The sun is the light.
The moon, going to
be your emotions.
Mercury, your communication,
how you think.
Venus is how you relate, how
you give and receive love.
Mars is our energy, our
ability to take action.
And then the ascendant is really
our physical body and energy
we give off when we
first meet people.
So it reveals much about us.
That is one thing that
we do in the collage,
is I help people find where
their personal planets go.
>>NOORY: They've always said
that Mars is a warring planet.
>>ARIELLE: It's
the-- yeah-- warrior.
>>NOORY: Why do they say that?
>>ARIELLE: It's energy
because it's all about
whether we can
take action or not.
So if you have Mars
in Libra, it may be
harder for you to take action.
Mars in Aries?
It is full steam ahead.
So Mars can tell us whether
you're passive, assertive,
aggressive, or being a bully.
Not only what sign it's in,
but what aspects it's making,
what house it's in.
So and it also then rules
our physical health.
How quickly will we
recover from something?
>>NOORY: Sure.
Now, I don't like to equate
success with merely money,
but if you were to look at
the charts of Jeff Bezos
from Amazon, Bill Gates
from Microsoft, Elon Musk--
PayPal and his rocketry, would
they all have similar traits?
Because they all seem to
be very successful people.
>>ARIELLE: I would have
to look at those charts.
But I have looked at the charts
of many successful people,
and you do see certain things.
Sometimes you see
stallions, which
is when they have three to
five planets in one sign,
and it creates this
intense kind of energy.
It builds, and it also
can create Aries energy,
and areas is that
pioneering energy.
Now, I think Jeff Bezos does
have some Aries energy, which
would make him a pioneer.
So you do tend to
see some pioneer
energy, some visionary
energy, some very
strong concentrated energy.
>>NOORY: But you'll see
similarities there--
>>ARIELLE: Oh, yes, you will.
>>NOORY: --between,
let's say, the three.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
Yeah.
I haven't looked at those
three, but normally,
when I do see very
driven people,
or depending on what
type of the success is,
you're going to see
certain things, yes.
>>NOORY: If you did the
chart of someone who was not
a good person, and for
lack of better words,
let's say you did
the chart of Hitler.
Would that show up?
Would you see this
meanness in there.
>>ARIELLE: Well, OK.
This is a very good question.
So Oprah Winfrey
and Richard Nixon--
they share a very
similar aspect.
Mercury opposes their Pluto.
>>NOORY: And two
different people.
>>ARIELLE: Two completely
This is why I stress
the nuance and duality.
This is why I talk about,
are we in or out of balance?
If you are in balance
with your energy,
all energy is beautiful.
When you are out
of balance, that's
when we get into trouble.
Now, when you start to look
at Goring, and Goebbels,
and some scary people, Capricorn
and Scorpio out of balance
can be really, really scary,
but it's out of balance.
>>NOORY: But would you
know that in advance?
>>ARIELLE: You could
see and say, oh, boy.
A lot of Scorpio, there is a
temptation to abuse your power.
Capricorn, you
become authoritarian.
It just means if these
people get out of balance,
and there are afflictions.
If you have that opposition,
you have to work harder
to be in balance.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now, what is the sun in a chart?
And why is that important?
>>ARIELLE: So the sun--
if we don't feel
connected to our sun,
we don't ever feel
completely alive.
So I always start with the
sun sign with my clients.
I say, OK, so if we're
going to build a collage,
let's take the sun.
OK, so your sun is in Gemini.
>>NOORY: Well, here we go.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, there it is.
Perfect.
I would pull the Gemini card and
you have a very prominent sun.
It's in your 10th house.
You need to know, in
what house is that sun?
Because for you to feel
completely illuminated,
you need to make the most
of 10th house energies.
That is public.
That is having a public persona.
That is career.
And you obviously are
incredibly public person,
so you are in alignment.
[LAUGHS]
You're in alignment
with your Gemini sun,
and you're going to want to
use those wonderful Gemini
communicative qualities in
your career, which you do.
You use your words all the time.
And then you want to incorporate
the air and the mutability,
the ideas, and
being able to adapt.
And you're really one of
the most adaptable people.
If you're going to interview
somebody, my goodness,
that's the essence of being
adaptable and being quick.
>>NOORY: And you can tell all
that with these Oracle cards?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely.
Yes.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
Now, would you say that I'm a
complete person after you've
looked at all these?
Here's the ascendant Leo.
What is that?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, this is one
of my most favorite parts
when I do workshops.
So the ascendant-- it's also
called your rising sign.
So your rising sign is Leo.
And then your ascendant
is around 22 degrees Leo.
That's the degree to
which it's rising.
That is the energy you give
off when you first meet people.
So Tompkins likes to say,
it's like your front door.
Most people are not
so aware of that.
They know that they're
having those energies,
but they lead with the sun.
So what I like to do
with people is to say,
get to know the qualities
of your ascendant,
because if you use
those, you will
appear to be more authentic.
You will make a better
first impression.
So you're Leo.
Leo is a star.
Leo is enthusiastic.
It's leadership.
It's creative.
It's very dynamic.
It's inspirational.
And so you lead with
those qualities,
you're going to win
people over instantly,
and then you can share all
your wonderful Gemini ideas
with them.
And so it's something to know
the qualities of your ascendant
because that's the
first impression.
And if you try to hide them--
it's not that people are hiding
them, it's that they're
not so aware of them--
then you can come off
as not as authentic.
>>NOORY: And this
last picture seems
to be everything I've done here.
>>ARIELLE: [LAUGHS]
Yeah, here we go.
>>NOORY: Is that the
finished version of me?
>>ARIELLE: OK.
This is the finished
version of what I
would do in the first workshop.
And it has a lot.
We see your Mars and Virgo
in the third house, the earth
that's connected to that.
We see your Aquarius moon.
Yeah, we see a lot
going on in that,
a lot of personal planets.
We can go further, but that
would be in the advanced.
This is a lot for somebody
to go home with to study.
>>NOORY: So what would
you say overall about me
based on everything
we've just looked at?
>>ARIELLE: Based
on everything, I
would say that you are a
tremendous communicator.
You have wonderful ideas
that are also unique.
And you have all of
the tenacious energy
to manifest them.
And that for you
to feel fulfilled,
you really do need
to be in the public,
because not only do you have
the 10th house energies,
but you're Leo.
Leos are supposed to
be in front of people.
It's about self-expression.
>>NOORY: They enjoy it.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah, yeah.
They're great at it and
they inspire people.
So you really are supposed
to be forwarding your ideas
through your voice and through
your ideas in front of people.
>>NOORY: Well, I do
a lot of live events
that are around the country.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
It's perfect.
Leo rising?
Oh, my gosh.
>>NOORY: I'm on sold out
theaters wherever I am.
>>ARIELLE: I am surprised.
Yeah.
Mhm.
>>NOORY: And before the show
starts, my producer, Tom
Danhizer, and I will kind
of peek through the curtain
to make sure everybody's in.
And if I see one
empty chair, maybe
in the middle of the
theater, I freak out.
>>ARIELLE: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: I say,
Tom, I'm not going
until that seat is filled.
So he may run around
and find somebody,
and say, you got
to sit down there.
He's not coming out.
Why is that?
Why do I act that way?
>>ARIELLE: Well, OK.
Your Mars is in Virgo, and
Virgo is very specific energy.
So your energy is you're
going to notice details.
Virgo notices the details.
And so your energy
is being used,
you're always going to
notice little details.
So I always say,
take a step back.
See the big picture, George.
You've got almost a
complete audience.
One person-- maybe that
person's in the bathroom.
See the big picture.
>>NOORY: Get them out now.
>>ARIELLE: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Now, divination
through your cards,
the fundamentals of astrology.
What is divination,
first of all?
>>ARIELLE: So that is really a
way to connect to your guides.
It's saying, how can
I connect to my guides
to receive messages
that will help
me reach my full potential?
And it's then using-- there
are many divination tools.
I use my Oracle deck now, but
I've used other Oracle decks,
as well, as a tool to do that.
>>NOORY: Radleigh Valentine,
who is a expert, intuitive,
and teacher of Tarot,
talked about divination
on Gaia's "Open Minds."
>>ARIELLE: OK.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: OK.
So we're going to get into
the notion of interpretation
when you're reading cards.
>>RADLEIGH VALENTINE: Sure, yes.
>>MEREDITH: Some people
have intuitive abilities,
some don't, and they're
just left with the words
and they're left with the image.
So let's talk about
that for a moment.
>>VALENTINE: I believe that
anybody can play the piano.
Maybe not everybody
is a concert pianist,
but anybody can play the piano.
I believe that we all have a
touch of the divine within us
because that's who we are.
We have a bit of the magic
of the divine inside us.
So I believe everybody
has divine gifts.
It's do you want
to use them or not?
Are you afraid of them?
Are you going to practice?
Because it is practice,
practice, practice.
So anybody can do
this if they want it.
But you were talking about
the whole intuitive part.
The thing about tarot, when
I teach it to my students,
is that, OK, there's a picture.
There are words.
And there are meanings
behind all of this.
There's tons of symbolism.
You can go down that rabbit
hole if you want about all
of that symbolism--
I certainly do-- or you can not.
It's your call, but
you have to trust.
You have to have faith.
You have to look at
the cards and go,
where are my eyes drawn?
And I teach my
students, it's like,
are your eyes drawn
to a particular phrase
at the bottom of the card?
Are your eyes drawn
to the picture?
Are you thinking about
the meaning of the card?
Where, intuitively?
>>NOORY: What do you think
of what he just said?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, I
think it's wonderful.
I think anyone can absolutely
strengthen their intuition.
It's like learning a
new language, I say,
so that's why I tell
people, start simply.
Pick one card a day.
Keep a journal.
Write down what you think--
after you look it up in the book
and you see what it might mean,
write one sentence.
Synthesize.
What do you think--
how is this card supposed
to be inspiring you?
Come back to it at
the end of the day,
and you'll learn a word at a
time, and then after a while,
you'll be speaking sentences.
And so just be patient.
But if you connect to your
guides, they want to help you.
They believe in free will,
so all you have to do
is reach out, have
crystal clear intentions,
be very specific in what
you ask, be consistent,
and you're going to be getting
stronger and stronger messages.
>>NOORY: You seem to
be very enlightened.
When I talk to you, I don't
pick up anything evil about you.
>>ARIELLE: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Does that
have a lot to determine
whether the individual
is the same?
Do you pinpoint who that person
is because of your personality?
>>ARIELLE: Well, I am very
connected to my guides.
I do meditation.
I do transcendental meditation,
very advanced techniques
of that.
>>NOORY: Daily, probably.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, my gosh, yes.
And I go on extended retreats.
I went on a 10-day
retreat where I
meditated about six hours
a day and came back,
and I channeled a
lot of my messages.
>>NOORY: Six hours a day?
>>ARIELLE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What do you do,
just sit there and om?
>>ARIELLE: Well, it involves
asanas, yoga positions,
pranayama, meditation.
It's called rounding when
you start doing [INAUDIBLE]..
But so I use my guides to help
my clients, but then one reason
I created the deck is
because I didn't just
want to fish for my clients,
I wanted to teach them how
to fish for themselves.
>>NOORY: Which is important.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, it's important.
I want to empower people.
And so that's why I'm
working with them.
I keep the journals.
And they strengthen
their intuition.
If you use these cards,
you will do that.
>>NOORY: Give us an example of
a reading you've done that has
come true--
most of them probably have--
that you would just say is one
of the most dramatic things
I've done.
What would that be?
>>ARIELLE: OK.
Well, sometimes there
are all kinds of things.
Well, I'll just say one that
I've done with my Oracle deck,
because typically, I do
astrology and Oracle.
That's where I'm
most comfortable.
>>NOORY: You combine it?
>>ARIELLE: Yes,
because I like to see
when the Oracle
echoes and reinforces
what I see in the astrology.
Then that strengthens
the message.
But I had one client
where she just
loves to do just the cards.
So all I had to go
on were the cards.
And she wanted to know--
she was married-- if this was
a good time to get pregnant.
>>NOORY: She's asking you this?
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
Well, yeah.
A good time?
Absolutely.
And so I used the cards
in a four-card spread
that I really like,
and the first card
would kind of cover the topic.
And I remember the first
card was the moon card, which
says hidden forces are in play.
So it doesn't mean it's
bad, but it just means, hm.
Something's being hidden.
And then the second
card, which is
supposed to be influencing, that
was the 12 house card reversed.
A secret is about
to be revealed.
So already, we're
developing a theme.
>>NOORY: And are
you puzzled when
these things are happening?
>>ARIELLE: Well, no.
It's a four-card reading,
so I say, let's play it out.
>>NOORY: It just is what it is.
>>ARIELLE: So then
the third card,
which is my favorite
card, is the advice card.
That was the Mercury
retrograde card.
When you get that as the
advice, that's saying, let's
take a wait-and-see approach.
There's always
hidden information
in Mercury retrogrades.
Then the potential
outcome, especially
if she takes that advice,
that was the Aries card.
And that was very
startling, because Aries
is individual energy.
It is all about
being self-reliant.
It is do it yourself, and
it's a serious new beginning.
So we're saying, hm.
A lot's being kept
from us, but it's
going to lead to a
significant new beginning.
So my advice to her was
saying, hold off right now.
We got to let some
of this information--
and work with your
guides, and you
can ask your guides
in meditation,
will you please
lift these veils?
Allow me to see this
situation more clearly.
person more clearly.
Now, what happened
in that reading--
I didn't know why
she should hold off.
And she's like,
well, what's hidden?
You've got to tell me.
So one thing, if
you're going to get
more out of any
kind of Oracle deck,
I would say, ask a
specific message.
Be grateful to get the answer.
Don't think you're going
to know all the details.
You're receiving the
message you need.
If they're telling you,
it's not a good idea.
There's more information
to be revealed,
there is divine timing.
Allow things to unfold.
In a week, you can
ask again, because we
have to learn how to receive
messages, not control them.
And that happens.
Especially early on, they'll
ask me the same question
10 different times.
And after a few times,
I'm saying, look,
you're getting the same card.
[LAUGHS] Take the message.
>>NOORY: What are
Heather retrogrades?
>>ARIELLE: So retrogrades
are when planets appear
to move backwards in the sky.
And what I really focus
on are the personal planet
retrogrades--
>>NOORY: What do you mean,
backwards in the sky?
>>ARIELLE: --Mercury,
Venus, Mars.
Well, they don't really.
They don't really,
but they appear to.
And so the appearance is--
>>NOORY: Like spin backwards?
>>ARIELLE: Yeah, they
appear to slow down.
And so yeah, so we have several
Mercury retrogrades a year.
We have Venus retrograde.
We have Mars retrograde.
>>NOORY: They're constant.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
Oh, yes.
Well, the Mercury
is several times.
The Venus and Mars
are not so often.
>>NOORY: And every
year, they're the same?
>>ARIELLE: They're always
in a different sign,
and so it always matters
what sign they're in.
But you can always
apply that RE rule.
Now, if it's a Venus
retrograde, you
want to apply the RE rule
to areas that Venus rules--
love, money, art.
So it's a time to re-evaluate
your relationships.
>>NOORY: So each
planetary retrograde
has something different
to do with you.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, absolutely.
So even though you're
rethinking things
and you're doing the RE--
it's a reflective time--
you're reflecting
on different things.
Yeah, and then in
Mars, Mars retrograde
is the trickiest
because it's a time
to rethink how we
use our energy.
And so if you're coming on
too strong in a situation,
it's a time to pull back.
If you've maybe been
more of a doormat,
it's a time to assert yourself.
So you want to be
rethinking that area.
>>NOORY: Those retrogrades--
are they the same for everybody?
Like you mentioned what Venus
is, money and things like that.
Would you say if we're
in retrograde for Venus,
everybody should be
affected by this?
>>ARIELLE: OK.
It is an opportunity
for everyone
to re-evaluate
their relationships,
to refinance, if you
want to refinance,
with Venus in retrograde.
It is going to impact if
you have-- so say you've
got Taurus in your chart.
Venus is connected to Taurus.
That may impact you more.
Even Gemini.
Mercury is connected to
Gemini, so Mercury retrograde
could connect you more.
So it could have more
emphasis, but it's always
going to impact you.
So you always want to be
embracing the RE rule.
It's a meditative time.
You should always be a little
more personal reflection
during retrograde.
>>NOORY: Rick
Levine-- you know him?
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK.
He's an astrologer, and he
talks about Mercury retrograde.
>>ARIELLE: OK.
>>RICK LEVINE: The
key to succeeding,
to surviving Mercury
retrograde is
to pay attention to the
details and to take the time
and read the fine print.
I have a friend
who was out looking
for a car who decided,
on a Mercury retrograde,
that he was going to buy a car.
And he said, I'm going
to go out looking.
And the first afternoon
he went out looking,
he came across a purple
little sports car,
fell in love with
it, and bought it.
And it took him
about a week or so
to realize it was a
pretty stupid thing
to do because he had dogs.
And it was like an impulse.
And you see, the thing
is is that if you
go out and buy a computer, or
buy a car, or sign a contract
and don't take the time to
go over all the fine print--
because when Mercury
is retrograde,
it's covering territory in the
sky where it's already been.
And sometimes, we feel
a great sense of urgency
that if I don't buy that car
today, I'll miss the chance.
That car won't be
there tomorrow.
So again, the practice
with Mercury retrograde
is slow down.
Remember, you have more
time than you think,
that Mercury retrogrades,
and turns direct, and turns
retrograde, and turns direct.
And as long as you
follow the flow,
and tie up those loose
ends the best you can,
you won't fall into the abyss
of the problem of Mercury
retrograde.
>>NOORY: Do you agree with that?
>>ARIELLE: There is a tremendous
urgency during Mercury
retrogrades, absolutely.
And part of the problem is
also, so much is hidden.
Whatever we think is the problem
is not really the problem.
So it's a much better
time to reflect, journal,
and then once
Mercury goes forward,
then you can implement.
And it is very good.
You should absolutely
cross your Ts
and dot your Is
during retrograde,
because we miss things.
>>NOORY: And
different retrogrades
mean different things, right?
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
With Mercury, it's
more about technology.
I would not be buying
new appliances.
You can repair your
appliances-- it's the RE--
but that's more about
communication technology.
With Venus, it's going to
be relationship snafus,
or ooh, I mismanaged my money.
With Mars, it could be
inappropriate displays
of anger and aggression coming
out because it's energy.
>>NOORY: How does the moon fit
into some of this [INAUDIBLE]??
>>ARIELLE: The moon is one
of the most complicated parts
of the chart.
It rules so much.
It rules our emotions.
It rules women, our
mothers especially.
It rules past lives.
It rules our physical home and
also people living in our home.
And we're least
conscious of that energy.
So you should really get
to know, be comfortable,
with your moon's energy.
>>NOORY: I had interviewed some
emergency medical technicians
and we talked about
the full moon.
And they said, without
question, during a full moon,
they get more calls for
emergencies and strange things
than anything.
And they're convinced
that the moon
has something to do with it.
>>ARIELLE: Well, I
follow the moon cycles
and I work with my
clients to be very
aware of the time between the
new moon and the full moon.
It's a two-week
period every month.
And when you're talking
about the full moon,
that is fruition.
That is a culmination of energy.
And so it's going to
be especially intense.
It's everything comes to
a head in a full moon.
The new moon is
great for when we're
trying to begin something.
It represents new beginnings.
Anything you start between
a new and full moon
will grow and blossom, and
the full moon is that growth.
And so things are going
to come to a head,
for sure, with that full moon.
>>NOORY: Well, the human body
is made up of so much water,
and the moon, we know, has a
gravitational pull on water.
So it's got to affect
people somehow.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: They get strange.
>>ARIELLE: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Very strange, indeed.
How does the moon fit
into your Oracle cards?
>>ARIELLE: Well, I have a
beautiful card for the moon.
And I put it all into
the visual collage.
And I also have a
new moon spread.
So that new moon
spread would require--
if somebody put my Oracle
deck into categories--
because I have houses,
planets, elements, modalities--
I cover everything.
>>NOORY: You cover all
your bases, don't you?
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
So if you make piles of
categories of my deck,
for every time
there's a new moon,
I would say, pull one
card from the element.
Pull one card from the
modality, from the planet sign.
And then you can say you want
to incorporate those energies so
that if you get the
fire, then you say, oh,
that's kind of like,
do it yesterday.
It's saying, you go
forward with your plans.
And then so whatever cards
you get, it's saying,
these are qualities to
incorporate and nurture
for the next two weeks.
>>NOORY: If you were
a parent, would you
get an astrological
chart on your kid?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, yeah.
I do child astrology
all the time.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>ARIELLE: It's great
because it's just
showing some potential.
And also children-- what
most people don't know--
they act from their moon.
We have to grow
into our sun sign.
So if somebody's sun is very
different from the moon,
they're going to be acting
from those moon qualities.
And then between ages 7 and
13, we grow into our Mercury,
so we grow into our chart.
And then I just did a
reading for a child,
and he didn't have any
earth in his chart.
So when you don't have
any earth-- because that's
what makes us grounded.
It's practical-- I then
say, you know what?
Why don't you make sure
he plays with clay,
or he's building things,
or plant flowers with him.
Make sure that he's
grounded in nature--
>>NOORY: Just play
with the earth, yeah.
>>ARIELLE: --because
he's missing earth.
And if we totally lack
an element or modality,
sometimes we completely
overcompensate and become
obsessed with it.
But often, it's just
kind of neglected.
So a way to be in
balance with our energy
is to make sure it's
incorporated early on.
>>NOORY: If I pick one
card from your Oracle deck,
can you say something about me?
>>ARIELLE: OK,
well, it depends--
if you're going to ask--
you know what?
I have not blessed this deck.
Can I bless the deck?
Because that's something--
>>NOORY: How do
you bless a deck?
>>ARIELLE: All right.
When people first get a
deck, they should bless it.
And they actually need
to make it their own.
And they should look at
each card and take it in.
So this will be great
because then people at home
can bless the deck, because
this, we just opened.
So [NON-ENGLISH],, angels and
guides, please bless this deck.
Please activate it.
Free it of all past energies.
Please allow me to
receive accurate messages.
And please allow me to
accurately interpret
those messages.
And allow me to use
this deck to receive
accurate messages
for George Noory
so he can reach his full
potential of perfect health,
happiness, and abundance.
OK, so--
>>NOORY: So now it's blessed.
>>ARIELLE: It's blessed.
>>NOORY: So I'm going
to take one card.
>>ARIELLE: So pull a card
and then pull it up to you,
because that's the
area you touch.
>>NOORY: All right.
Mars retrograde.
>>ARIELLE: Ooh.
Oh, OK.
Mars retrograde.
>>NOORY: Why are you
all excited about this?
>>ARIELLE: Well [LAUGHS] I
guess I just get really excited.
>>NOORY: Oh.
I thought maybe I hit
the lottery or something.
>>ARIELLE: It's very exciting.
Well, I do feel that it's
a very energetic card,
and you give off
a lot of energy.
And we just talked
about Mars retrograde.
So Mars retrograde.
This means right now, this
is a perfect time for you
to be rethinking all the
ways you use your energy.
>>NOORY: What if I had
pulled a different card?
>>ARIELLE: Well, then,
that's the message
to incorporate that energy.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah.
So it's saying,
if you incorporate
this energy, that could be
really beneficial to you today.
And so it could
even be, you might
want to think about
your exercise routine.
Think about maybe some
things that you're eating.
And also, there
could be an issue
that you even want to assert
yourself more strongly,
or maybe there's where
you're saying, you know what?
I'm going to lay off of
that one for a while.
>>NOORY: And you use the
cards for your daily routine,
I guess.
>>ARIELLE: Yeah.
Very simple-- inspire and
prepare me for the day.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
So what's next for you?
>>ARIELLE: Well I am touring.
I'm going all over the country.
I'm doing events
where I'm helping
people build these
visual collages,
showing them how to use this.
I teach astrology with the deck.
And then I'm also
developing a new deck.
I'm coming out
with a download PDF
of all kinds of
wonderful spreads
that you can use with my deck.
>>NOORY: How important are
computers to your work?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, they're very
important because it speeds it
up.
Oh, my goodness.
>>NOORY: That's what I thought.
>>ARIELLE: When we used to
have to-- it took forever
to build a chart.
Now, we can type
in the information
and we see the chart.
So it goes much faster.
>>NOORY: And it's accurate.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, it's
very accurate, yes.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>ARIELLE: Well, because the
skill is in the interpretation.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Now there's
programs for that, too?
>>ARIELLE: Well, yeah,
but I don't look at those.
>>NOORY: You're more
hands-on, aren't you?
>>ARIELLE: Well, once you
learn, every astrologer is going
to have--
there's interpretation.
I'm very personal, practical.
I want to help people
in their daily lives.
There's all different types.
Some astrologers
are really esoteric.
It's just we all
have a specialty.
>>NOORY: And are the cards based
for you, for an astrologer,
or for some individual who might
want to do their own thing?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, you can use
this as only an Oracle deck.
You don't have to know
anything about astrology.
You look the card up.
It's color-coded.
You read the messages that
are connected to the card .
And then you incorporate those.
You don't have to know
anything about astrology.
>>NOORY: Heather, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ARIELLE: Thanks so much.
It's my pleasure.
>>NOORY: It's great having you.
Astrology is so cool
because it really
tells you things about your
future and about your present
that you might not have
known about before.
I just learned a lot about me.
I kind of like it.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."